content/blog/lorem-ipsum.mdx, before:

---
title: Lorem Ipsum
description: Lorem ipsum dolor, sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Consequatur harum reprehenderit, nemo veniam sit facere voluptates tempore delectus nam? Esse et voluptatibus est adipisci odit commodi eum.
date: "2003-01-12"
tags:
  - Lorem
  - Ipsum
  - dolar
  - esse
  - et
  - sit
  - amet
  - amet
---

## Heading 2

### Heading 3

#### Heading 4

##### Heading 5

###### Heading 6

### Always start your top-level headings with `<h2>`

There should only be one `<h1>` tag in the whole page, which is reserved by the blog post title, so you should always start your top level headings with `<h2>` tag instead. If you still include an `<h1>` tag then the **entire post headings will be normalized by increasing their heading level by 1** (i.e, `<h1>` -> `<h2>` and `<h2>` -> `<h3>`).

## Links

Markup:

```
This is a paragraph that contains an [external link](https://web.dev/blog/), [an internal link](/about) and an [anchor link](#heading-2).

Raw links can be auto-linked, just like Github. For example:
www.example.com
https://github.com

```

Rendered:

This is a paragraph that contains an [external link](https://web.dev/blog/), [an internal link](/about) and an [anchor link](#heading-2).

Raw links can be auto-linked, just like Github. For example:
www.example.com
https://github.com

## Blockquotes

Markup:

```
> This is a normal blockquote.

> Blockquotes can be nested as well of course.
>
> > see.

```

Rendered:

> This is a normal blockquote.

> Blockquotes can be nested as well of course.
>
> > see.

## Callout cards

Markup:

````
<Callout>This is the default callout card</Callout>

<Callout variant="warning">This is a warning callout</Callout>

<Callout variant="danger">
  <p>This is a danger callout</p>

    ```tsx
    "use strict";

    const obj = { a: "Hello", b: "World" };
    const test = ["This", "is", "cool", "isn't", "it?"]
    ```

    ```tsx
    const Page = () => {
      return <div>Hellow World!</div>;
    };
    ```
</Callout>
````

Rendered:

<Callout>This is the default callout card</Callout>

<Callout variant="warning">This is a warning callout</Callout>

<Callout variant="danger">
  <p>This is a danger callout</p>

    ```tsx
    "use strict";

    const obj = { a: "Hello", b: "World" };
    const test = ["This", "is", "cool", "isn't", "it?"]
    ```

    ```tsx
    const Page = () => {
      return <div>Hellow World!</div>;
    };
    ```

</Callout>

## Lists

Markup:

```
- This
- is
- a
- nested
  - list
  - cool
- Similar to how in Github

```

Rendered:

- This
- is
- a
- nested
  - list
  - cool
- Similar to how in Github

## Tables

Markup:

```
| this  | is    | a     | table |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |

```

Rendered:

| this  | is    | a     | table |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |

Markup:

```
| Left aligned Header | Right aligned Header | Center aligned Header |
| :------------------ | -------------------: | :-------------------: |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |

```

Rendered:

| Left aligned Header | Right aligned Header | Center aligned Header |
| :------------------ | -------------------: | :-------------------: |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |

## Code Blocks

Markup:

````
```js showLineNumbers
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```
````

Rendered:

```js showLineNumbers
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```

### Code block with title and caption

Markup:

````

```tsx title="app/components/mdx-content.tsx"
import mdxComponents from "@/components/mdx-components";
import { useMDXComponent } from "next-contentlayer/hooks";

type MDXContentProps = {
  code: string;
};

const MDXContent = ({ code }: MDXContentProps) => {
  const Content = useMDXComponent(code);
  return <Content components={mdxComponents} />;
};

export default MDXContent;
```
````

Rendered:

```tsx title="app/components/mdx-content.tsx"
import mdxComponents from "@/components/mdx-components";
import { useMDXComponent } from "next-contentlayer/hooks";

type MDXContentProps = {
  code: string;
};

const MDXContent = ({ code }: MDXContentProps) => {
  const Content = useMDXComponent(code);
  return <Content components={mdxComponents} />;
};

export default MDXContent;
```

The file icon in the code titles are based on the language provided to the code block.

#### Code with caption below:

Markup:

````
```js caption="Caption for above code block"
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```
````

Rendered:

```js caption="Caption for above code block"
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```

### Highlighting line number in code blocks

Markup;

````
```tsx {2}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```
````

Rendered:

```tsx {2}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```

Range highlighting:

Markup:

````

```js title="page.tsx" {5-10}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");

try {
  const res = await fetch(process.env.API_URL);
} catch (e) {
  // this is what peak error handling looks like
  console.log(e);
}
```

````

Rendered:

```js title="page.tsx" {5-10}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");

try {
  const res = await fetch(process.env.API_URL);
} catch (e) {
  // this is what peak error handling looks like
  console.log(e);
}
```

### Highlighting words in code blocks

Markup;

````
```tsx /title/1-2,4
export const generateCommonMeta = (meta: {
  title: string;
  description: string;
  image?: string;
}): Metadata => {
  return {
    title: meta.title,
    description: meta.description,
    openGraph: {
      title: meta.title,
      description: meta.description,
      images: [meta.image || config.siteImage],
    },
  };
};
```
````

Rendered:

```tsx /title/1-2,4
export const generateCommonMeta = (meta: {
  title: string;
  description: string;
  image?: string;
}): Metadata => {
  return {
    title: meta.title,
    description: meta.description,
    openGraph: {
      title: meta.title,
      description: meta.description,
      images: [meta.image || config.siteImage],
    },
  };
};
```

### Inline code

Markup:

```
This is an inline code with syntax highlighting: `code(){:js}`

This is a normal inline code `code()`
```

Rendered:

This is an inline code with syntax highlighting: `code(){:js}`

This is a normal inline code `code()`

## Images

Markup:

```
![this is an external image](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1541701494587-cb58502866ab?fit=crop&w=1170&q=80)
```

Rendered:

![this is an external image](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1541701494587-cb58502866ab?fit=crop&w=1170&q=80)

## Text styles

Markup:

```
**This is a bold text**

_This is an italic text_

**_This is a strong italic text_**

~~This is a strikethrough text~~

Below is a seperator

---
```

Rendered:

**This is a bold text**

_This is an italic text_

**_This is a strong italic text_**

~~This is a strikethrough text~~

Below is a seperator

---

Markup:

```
- [ ] An uncompleted task
- [x] A completed task
```

Rendered:

- [ ] An uncompleted task
- [x] A completed task

Commit message:

feat: add internal image example

content/blog/lorem-ipsum.mdx, after:

---
title: Lorem Ipsum
description: Lorem ipsum dolor, sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Consequatur harum reprehenderit, nemo veniam sit facere voluptates tempore delectus nam? Esse et voluptatibus est adipisci odit commodi eum.
date: "2003-01-12"
tags:
  - Lorem
  - Ipsum
  - dolar
  - esse
  - et
  - sit
  - amet
  - amet
---

## Heading 2

### Heading 3

#### Heading 4

##### Heading 5

###### Heading 6

### Always start your top-level headings with `<h2>`

There should only be one `<h1>` tag in the whole page, which is reserved by the blog post title, so you should always start your top level headings with `<h2>` tag instead. If you still include an `<h1>` tag then the **entire post headings will be normalized by increasing their heading level by 1** (i.e, `<h1>` -> `<h2>` and `<h2>` -> `<h3>`).

## Links

Markup:

```
This is a paragraph that contains an [external link](https://web.dev/blog/), [an internal link](/about) and an [anchor link](#heading-2).

Raw links can be auto-linked, just like Github. For example:
www.example.com
https://github.com

```

Rendered:

This is a paragraph that contains an [external link](https://web.dev/blog/), [an internal link](/about) and an [anchor link](#heading-2).

Raw links can be auto-linked, just like Github. For example:
www.example.com
https://github.com

## Blockquotes

Markup:

```
> This is a normal blockquote.

> Blockquotes can be nested as well of course.
>
> > see.

```

Rendered:

> This is a normal blockquote.

> Blockquotes can be nested as well of course.
>
> > see.

## Callout cards

Markup:

````
<Callout>This is the default callout card</Callout>

<Callout variant="warning">This is a warning callout</Callout>

<Callout variant="danger">
  <p>This is a danger callout</p>

    ```tsx
    "use strict";

    const obj = { a: "Hello", b: "World" };
    const test = ["This", "is", "cool", "isn't", "it?"]
    ```

    ```tsx
    const Page = () => {
      return <div>Hellow World!</div>;
    };
    ```
</Callout>
````

Rendered:

<Callout>This is the default callout card</Callout>

<Callout variant="warning">This is a warning callout</Callout>

<Callout variant="danger">
  <p>This is a danger callout</p>

    ```tsx
    "use strict";

    const obj = { a: "Hello", b: "World" };
    const test = ["This", "is", "cool", "isn't", "it?"]
    ```

    ```tsx
    const Page = () => {
      return <div>Hellow World!</div>;
    };
    ```

</Callout>

## Lists

Markup:

```
- This
- is
- a
- nested
  - list
  - cool
- Similar to how in Github

```

Rendered:

- This
- is
- a
- nested
  - list
  - cool
- Similar to how in Github

## Tables

Markup:

```
| this  | is    | a     | table |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |

```

Rendered:

| this  | is    | a     | table |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |
| col 1 | col 2 | col 3 | col 4 |

Markup:

```
| Left aligned Header | Right aligned Header | Center aligned Header |
| :------------------ | -------------------: | :-------------------: |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |

```

Rendered:

| Left aligned Header | Right aligned Header | Center aligned Header |
| :------------------ | -------------------: | :-------------------: |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |
| Content Cell        |         Content Cell |     Content Cell      |

## Code Blocks

Markup:

````
```js showLineNumbers
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```
````

Rendered:

```js showLineNumbers
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```

### Code block with title and caption

Markup:

````

```tsx title="app/components/mdx-content.tsx"
import mdxComponents from "@/components/mdx-components";
import { useMDXComponent } from "next-contentlayer/hooks";

type MDXContentProps = {
  code: string;
};

const MDXContent = ({ code }: MDXContentProps) => {
  const Content = useMDXComponent(code);
  return <Content components={mdxComponents} />;
};

export default MDXContent;
```
````

Rendered:

```tsx title="app/components/mdx-content.tsx"
import mdxComponents from "@/components/mdx-components";
import { useMDXComponent } from "next-contentlayer/hooks";

type MDXContentProps = {
  code: string;
};

const MDXContent = ({ code }: MDXContentProps) => {
  const Content = useMDXComponent(code);
  return <Content components={mdxComponents} />;
};

export default MDXContent;
```

The file icon in the code titles are based on the language provided to the code block.

#### Code with caption below:

Markup:

````
```js caption="Caption for above code block"
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```
````

Rendered:

```js caption="Caption for above code block"
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```

### Highlighting line number in code blocks

Markup;

````
```tsx {2}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```
````

Rendered:

```tsx {2}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");
```

Range highlighting:

Markup:

````

```js title="page.tsx" {5-10}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");

try {
  const res = await fetch(process.env.API_URL);
} catch (e) {
  // this is what peak error handling looks like
  console.log(e);
}
```

````

Rendered:

```js title="page.tsx" {5-10}
// This is a javascript code block
const ls = window.localStorage;
ls.setItem("awesome", "blog-template");

try {
  const res = await fetch(process.env.API_URL);
} catch (e) {
  // this is what peak error handling looks like
  console.log(e);
}
```

### Highlighting words in code blocks

Markup;

````
```tsx /title/1-2,4
export const generateCommonMeta = (meta: {
  title: string;
  description: string;
  image?: string;
}): Metadata => {
  return {
    title: meta.title,
    description: meta.description,
    openGraph: {
      title: meta.title,
      description: meta.description,
      images: [meta.image || config.siteImage],
    },
  };
};
```
````

Rendered:

```tsx /title/1-2,4
export const generateCommonMeta = (meta: {
  title: string;
  description: string;
  image?: string;
}): Metadata => {
  return {
    title: meta.title,
    description: meta.description,
    openGraph: {
      title: meta.title,
      description: meta.description,
      images: [meta.image || config.siteImage],
    },
  };
};
```

### Inline code

Markup:

```
This is an inline code with syntax highlighting: `code(){:js}`

This is a normal inline code `code()`
```

Rendered:

This is an inline code with syntax highlighting: `code(){:js}`

This is a normal inline code `code()`

## Images

Markup:

```
![this is an external image](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1541701494587-cb58502866ab?fit=crop&w=1170&q=80)

![this is an internal image](/images/announcement-banner.png)
```

Rendered:

![this is an external image](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1541701494587-cb58502866ab?fit=crop&w=1170&q=80)

![this is an internal image](/images/announcement-banner.png)

## Text styles

Markup:

```
**This is a bold text**

_This is an italic text_

**_This is a strong italic text_**

~~This is a strikethrough text~~

Below is a seperator

---
```

Rendered:

**This is a bold text**

_This is an italic text_

**_This is a strong italic text_**

~~This is a strikethrough text~~

Below is a seperator

---

Markup:

```
- [ ] An uncompleted task
- [x] A completed task
```

Rendered:

- [ ] An uncompleted task
- [x] A completed task
